A Drop of Sunshine
A Guru Yoga for Lord Marpa
by Jokyab Pema Trinlé Nyingpo

ü su gyalwé chizuk ché
In the centre is the embodiment of all victors—
chitar marpa lotsawa
Outwardly he is Marpa Lotsāwa,
nangtar dombhé heruka
Inwardly he is Ḍombī Heruka,
sangwa shiri hé benza
And secretly he is noble Hevajra.

marmuk tro dzum hur bakchen
Brown in colour, he bears a wrathful frown and an intent gaze.
zil dang ziji sam mikhyab
He radiates inconceivable splendor and majesty.
naljor ngak tsün kyü mé ché
Wearing the simple attire of a tantric practitioner,
rol tab ngalsö chakgya dzé
He sits in the revelling posture and displays the resting-mind mudrā.

shyal jal wang shyi gyü la kyé
By seeing his face, the four empowerments take effect within.
sung tö tamal nangwa gak
By hearing his voice, ordinary appearances come to a halt.
drenpé lhenkyé yeshe po
By thinking of him, co-emergent wakefulness is imparted.

chö kyi pobpa chenpo yi
Through his great confidence in the Dharma,
shyennang zil nön jin tib sé
He subdues the perceptions of others; such is the power of his presence.
dön gyü tokpé yeshe kyi
Through the wisdom that realises the ultimate,
shyen gyü drolwar nüpa yi
He is able to liberate the mindstreams of others.
bak dro ur ré shyukpar sal
Thus he is seated before me, radiating resplendence.

lama ku yi né nga ru
At the five places of the Guru’s body:
chiwor sangdü ku dorjé
At his crown is Guhyasamāja, vajra form,
drinpar maya sung dorjé
At his throat is Māyā, vajra speech,
tukkar kyedor tuk dorjé
At his heart centre is Hevajra, vajra heart,
tewar demchok yönten dak
At his navel is Cakrasaṃvara, lord of qualities,
sangwar jikjé trinlé pal
And at his secret place is Yamāntaka, master of activities.

u tsuk tengchok yé rimshyin
Above his head, seated one above the other, are
chunyi ka ché pandita
The paṇḍita who underwent twelve trials,
trulpé ku chok naropa
Supreme nirmāṇakāya Nāropa;
kabab shyi dzin drubpé dak
Lord of siddhas, holder of the four transmissions,
longchö dzok ku té lopa
Sambhogakāya Tilopa;
khajor dünden drukpé pal
Glory of the sixth family, sovereign of the sevenfold unity,
chöku dorjé chang chenpo
Dharmakāya Vajradhara.

mar tön shyukpé chok shyi ru
Below him in the four cardinal directions are his four main disciples:

melong yeshe tsul tön wang
Tsürtön Wanggi Dorje,1 mirror-like wisdom,
lamé chi dzé lekpar tong
Who saw the Guru’s every deed as excellent
ma gom powé ka chen bab
And received the lineage of powa without training.
sengé tabü naljorpa
This lion-like yogi is seated with his palms joined
dé gü tukkar taljar dzé
In devotion at his heart centre.

nyamnyi yeshe ngok chö dor
Ngok Chöku Dorjé, wisdom of equality,
chi yö lamé chok su bul
Who offered whatever he had to the Guru,
shyung shé chuwö ka chen bab
And received the scholarly lineage.
gya tak tabü naljorpa
This yogi, like a Bengal tigress, is seated majestically,
bak dro ji chak chö ché dzé
His hands in the Dharma-expounding mudrā.

sortok yeshe nyé tön tsom
Metön Tsönpo,2 discerning wisdom,
chi nyé lamé trinlé drub
Who did whatever would please the Guru
ösal powé ka chen bab
And received the lineage of the transference of luminosity.
khyung chen tabü naljorpa
This garuḍa-like yogi is seated in unwavering samadhi
tingdzin yomé nyamshyak dzé
With his hands in the mudrā of equipoise.

ja drub yeshe mi la jé
Lord Mila, all-accomplishing wisdom,
chi sung lamé ka la nyen
Who heeded the Guru’s every command
dé drö tummö ka chen bab
And received the lineage of fierce blissful heat.
jagö tabü naljorpa
This vulture-like yogi radiates both sorrow and joy,
ga kyö nyam bar chak tab gyur
While displaying hand gestures.

yé su dar ma dodé bum
To Marpa’s right is Darma Dodé Bum,
tsenpé palbar ga trö nyam
Resplendent with the major and minor marks and a joyful countenance.
yön du yum chok dakmema
To Marpa’s left is his supreme consort Dagmema,
detong zibar nyingjé nyam
Aglow with blissful emptiness and a compassionate expression.

tsowö chok dang choktsam la
Surrounding Marpa, in the cardinal and intermediate directions,
kagyü lama trin tar tib
Are a gathering of Kagyü gurus like billowing banks of clouds;
gyüdé lhatsok ja tar shar
An assembly of deities of the classes of tantra, radiant as rainbows,
khandro nyizer dul tar trik
A mass of ḍākinīs like dust particles in sunbeams,
chökyong buyuk shyindu tsub
And a horde of Dharma protectors like a swirling snowstorm.

om ah hung maha guru dharma mati hrih soha
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā guru dharmamati hrīḥ svāhā

This was written by Pema Trinlé Nyingpo, also known as Karma Trinlé Gyatso, while in Lho Drowolung
[Marpa Lotsāwa’s birthplace].

| Translated by Laura Dainty with the kind assistance of Tsangsar Tulku, 2021.

Source: pad+ma 'phrin las snying po, karma bde chen. "mar pa'i bla ma'i rnal 'byor nyi ma'i
thig le/." In gsung 'bum/_pad+ma 'phrin las snying po/. BDRC W1KG5787. 3 vols. khri'u tu'u/:
gzu dgon rig gzhung nyams gso khang /, [2010]. Vol. 1: 266–268

Version: 1.1-20211028
↑ Reading mtshul as mtshur.
↑ Reading tshom as tshon.