Guru Yoga of Lord Marpa Lotsāwa
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

ah, rangnang dakpa womin shying
Ah. My own perception, in all its purity, is the realm of Akaniṣṭha,
köpa lhün dzok dün kha ru
Spontaneously perfect in arrangement; there, in the sky before me,
sengtri pé nyi dawé teng
Upon a lion throne, lotus, sun and moon,
tsawé lama lho drakpa
Is my root guru in the form of Lhodrakpa,
mar tön chökyi lodrö ni
The teacher Marpa Chökyi Lodrö.
marmuk tro nyam chak nyi kyi
He is reddish brown and has a wrathful expression.
pü teng sa nön genyen ché
His two hands cover his knees and touch the earth.
chen nyi tatang hur bak zik
He wears upāsaka dress and his two eyes gaze intently.
shyabzung dorjé kyiltrung shyuk
His sits with his two legs crossed in vajra posture.
ku la gyüdé kyilkhor dzok
Within his body all the tantric maṇḍalas are complete.
né sum yikdru sum gyi tsen
His three centres are marked with three syllables,
ö trö yeshe chendrang gyur
From which light radiates out to invite the wisdom beings.
Perform the seven branches elaborately or concisely as appropriate; also offer a maṇḍala.
pal gyé dzé dorjé trulpé ku
Nirmāṇakāya emanation of glorious Hevajra,
jé marpa chökyi lodrö la
Lord Marpa Chökyi Lodrö,
yi tsechik güpé solwa deb
With one-pointed mind and in devotion, I pray to you:
chok tünmong ngödrub tsal du sol
Grant me supreme and ordinary attainments, I pray.
yeshe dorjé jin chen pob
Shower down the blessings of your vajra wisdom.
rangsem nyukma tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the genuine nature of my mind.
And:
nyingtob chenpö pakyul len mang drö
With great courage, you travelled many times to the noble land.
sherab chenpö chö kün tuk su chü
With great wisdom, you realized the nature of all phenomena.
tsöndrü chenpö drubpé gyaltsen tsuk
With great diligence, you raised the victory banner of accomplishment.
lotsa chenpö shyab la solwa deb
Great lotsāwa, at your feet I pray.
Offer prayer in this way.
om ah guru dharma mati sarwa siddhi pala hung
oṃ āḥ guru dharmamati sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
Recite this name mantra as many times as possible.
ma namkha dang nyampé semchen tamché lama sangye rinpoche la solwa deb so
All mother sentient beings as infinite as space pray to the guru, the precious buddha,
Then add the following:
lama künkhyab chö kyi ku la solwa deb so
Pray to the guru, the all-pervasive dharmakāya.
lama dechen longchö dzokpé ku la solwa deb so
Pray to the guru, the saṃbhogakāya of great bliss.
lama tukjé trulpé ku la solwa deb so
Pray to the guru, the compassionate nirmāṇakāya.
Repeat these many times. Then recite:
dak dang semchen tamché kyi lo chö su drowar jingyi lab tu sol
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that I and all sentient beings may turn our minds towards the
Dharma.
chö lam du drowar jingyi lab tu sol
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that Dharma may progress along the path.
lam trulpa selwar jingyi lab tu sol
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that the path may eliminate confusion.
trulpa yeshe su charwar jingyi lab tu sol
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that confusion may dawn as wisdom.

lamé né sum dru sum lé
From the three syllables at the guru's three centres,
özer ku dang ngak treng dang
Rays of light, buddha forms, mantra garlands,
chaktsen pak tu mepa trö
And hand implements emanate in boundless number.
rim dang chikchar timpa lé
Through dissolving gradually and all at once
drib dak wang dang ngödrub tob
Obscurations are purified, empowerments and siddhis obtained.
lama ö shyu rang la tim
The guru then melts into light and dissolves into me.
dü sum tokpé malepé
And in a state unspoilt by thoughts of past, present or future,
rangrig nyukma chakgya cher
Mahāmudrā, the genuine nature of my own awareness,
machö rangbab ngang du shyak
I settle naturally, without alteration or contrivance.
Then, when rising from the session, recite:
kyewa küntu yangdak lama dang
In all my lives, may I never be separated from the perfect lama,
dralmé chö kyi pal la longchö né
And having benefited fully from the splendour of the Dharma,
sa dang lam gyi yönten rabdzok té
May I perfect the qualities of the five paths and ten bhūmis,
dorjé chang gi gopang nyur tob shok
And swiftly attain the sublime level of Vajradhara!
And say other prayers of dedication and aspiration.

Thus, in response to a request from the faithful Lama Chokden, who presented a silk scarf and
silver coin, this was written by Chökyi Lodrö while in a pleasure grove beside the emanated
temple at Sekhar in Lhodrak.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source:  ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "mnga' bdag mar pa lo tsA'i bla ma'i rnal 'byor/" in
’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986.
Vol. 4: 289–290