Prayer to Lord Marpa, Consort and Heirs1
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

emaho
Emaho!
ngotsar drubpa chenpö ku nyepa
You who assumed the form of a wondrous mahāsiddha,
nang sem wanggyur chökyi gyalpo chok
Sublime dharma-king, master of mind and perception,
dra gyur lotsa chenpo marpa jé
Magnificent translator, Lord Marpa Lotsāwa,
lodrö chenpo lo chok ngawé dak
Sovereign of vast intelligence and supreme mind,2
gyüdé gyatsö sangwé dzö dzinpa
Keeper of the secret treasury of oceanic tantras,
zungjuk drubpé khorlö gyurwa ché
Great universal ruler, who attained the state of union.

gang gi sangwa sum gyi jinlab sé
Your son, whom you blessed with your three secrets,
changchub sempa pachen drowa dul
Was the bodhisattva and magnificent tamer of beings
darma dodé tsok nyi mejung ku
Darma Dodé, whose wondrous form arose from twofold accumulation.
yeshe gyatsö rang zuk chenrezik
A manifestation of Avalokiteśvara, embodiment of oceanic wisdom,
shyönnü kur tön mönlam tayé dak
Appearing in youthful form as a master of infinite aspiration.

dorjé dakmé mimö zuk gyurwa
Vajra Nairātmyā appearing in human female guise,
sherab lhamo dewé daknyi ku
Was the wisdom goddess and embodiment of bliss,
khordé chö kün ying kyi bhagar dü
In whose bhaga of absolute space all the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are contained—
dü sum gyalwa tro dang dü dzé ma
She who emanates and attracts all the victorious ones of the three times.

khorlo dompé drub rik yong kyi tso
Foremost among all the adepts of Cakrasaṃvara,
lala na dang rasé gyuwa kün
Was the master for whom all movement within the lalanā and rasanā3
drachen ying su zawar jepé dak
Was eclipsed, consumed within the space of Rahū,
chudruk tser sön mi lob gyalsar shek
And who reached the culmination of the sixteen joys, the state of no-more-learning,
tsen tö khorwé jik lé kyob dzé ching
He whose name alone guards against saṃsāra’s terror,
jinlab chenpo ngönsum terwé dak
The master who directly confers the greatest of blessings,
dorjé gyaltsen töpa ga shyé drak
The one renowned as Dorje Gyaltsen and Töpa Ga,
jikten sum gyi gyen gyur mi yi chok
Ornament of all three worlds, supreme among human beings.

detar jetsün yabyum sé nam la
Through this, my devoted prayer to the reverend and noble Guru,
güpé soltab dak la jingyi lob
Together with his consort and heirs, inspire me with your blessings.
rangsem lhenkyé yeshe nyima ché
Let the great sun of co-emergent wisdom dawn within my mind
nying gi marik münpa kün sal shying
To banish all the darkness contained within an ignorant heart.
si sum dra dé drongkhyer ten chom né
May the city of the three worlds’ hostile forces be forever undone,
womin lhündrub shyalmé nyamgawar
And may we savour the treasury of inexhaustible kāyas and wisdoms
ku dang yeshe dzemé ter la chö
Within the delightful, spontaneously present palace of Akaniṣṭha,
kham sum khorwa dong né trukpar shok
And empty the three realms of saṃsāra from their very depths.

Chökyi Lodrö offered this prayer in the vicinity of the vast estate of Lhodrak Marpa and his
heirs. Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with many thanks to Sean Price for his valuable suggestions and
with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source:  ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "Rje mar pa’i gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi
blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986. Vol. 3: 201–202
↑ The original text is untitled. This title was added by the translator. The editors of the
recent edition of the collected works refer to the text as simply Prayer to Lord Marpa (rje
mar pa’i gsol 'debs).↑ In this verse Jamyang Khyentse plays upon Marpa’s name (and his own),
Chökyi Lodrö, ‘intelligence of Dharma’. ↑ I.e., the left and right channels of the subtle
body.