Song of Devotion
A Prayer to Lord Marpa Lotsāwa
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

jé dü sum sangye düpé ngö
Precious lord, true embodiment of the buddhas of the three times,
pal gyé dzé dorjé trulpé ku
Glorious Hevajra in a body of manifestation—
jé marpa lo tsar solwa deb
Precious lord Marpa Lotsāwa, to you I pray:
bu nga la jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire me, this devoted child, with your blessings.

gön ka shyi gyüpé chimé ché
Great forefather of the lineage of the four transmissions,1
chö nang sem kün la rangwang gyur
With mastery over all aspects of mind and phenomena,
pal drub rik gyatsö depön ché
Great leader guiding an ocean of glorious adepts,
gön lhodrakpa dé nying ü dren
Protector Lhodrakpa, I recall you in the depths of my heart.

jé pakpé yul du len dün jön
Precious lord, seven times you travelled to the noble land of India,
pal naro mitri dam dzö kyi
And with a treasury of instructions from glorious Nāro and Maitrī,
pa drowé lamé tukgyü tsim
You, father, guru to all beings, satisfied your wisdom mind.

chö zabmo sang ngak tekpa yi
You distributed this treasure trove of precious jewels
nor ratné terkha dram bur dal
Of profound Dharma from the secret mantra vehicle,
pa khyé lé trungpé tuk kyi sé
And became a father to your heart-born son—
jé mila shyepa tsen tsam gyi
Jé Mila, whose name alone serves
ngensong gi dukngal shyidzé ching
To assuage the sufferings of the lower realms,
bhotra yi drubpa kün gyi gyen
The crowning ornament of all Bhoṭa’s adepts.2

kyab tartuk yishyin nor dré ku
Ultimate refuge, whose form is like a wish-granting gem,
né drowo lung gi gönpa dang
In places such as the hermitage of Trowo valley,
pal sékhar trulpé lhakhang na
And the manifest temple at glorious Sekhar,
jé chö kyi wangchuk heruka
You are the precious lord of Dharma, the heruka,
pal dakmema dang gyé rol shyuk
Who dwells in delight with Nairātmyā.3
chö ngé sang gi gyüdé gyatso yi
And who, with oceanic tantras of definitive secret Dharma,
bu kalzang lob tsok mindrol dzé
Matured and liberated hosts of fortunate disciple-children.

jé mi yi lü la sangye tuk
Precious lord who has a buddha’s mind in a human body,
gön sé ché gyalwé trinlé dzé
With your heirs, you carried out the victorious ones’ activity.
dü danta shyuk na gawa la
If only you were here right now, how happy I would be!
gön khyö shyal jalwé kalwé wen
But I am bereft, O protector, of the chance to see your face—
bu lé ngen dribpé nyepar zé
A child of evil karma mired in the fault of obscurations.

pa chö kyi ying na shyuk shyindu
O Father, as you dwell in the dharmadhātu,
zuk long trul gyi rolpa gyün mi ché
The play of nirmāṇakāya and sambhogakāya forms continues,
khor dak dang ma dak talé nam
Leading infinite assemblies, pure and impure,
dré changchub chenpö sa la gö
To the fruitional state of great awakening.

jé khyö kyi trinlé kha tar khyab
Precious lord, your activity is as all-pervasive as space itself.
bö münpé gyalkham karpor tong
It brought the light of purity to the darkened land of Tibet.
ngak rigdzin drubpa sam lé dé
And with innumerable mantra adepts and vidyādharas
pal drubgyü tenpé dzamling khyab
Spread the teachings of the glorious practice lineage throughout the world.
gön khyö dré namtar shyen lamé
O protector, there is no life of liberation to compare with yours.

pal sara ha dang yermé pé
You who are inseparable from glorious Saraha,
pa lo tsa chenpö kadrin dren
Great father translator, I recall your kindness.
sa chusum tsemor rab chinpé
You who reached the peak of the thirteen stages,
pal yenlak dünden dorjé chang
Glorious Vajradhara with the seven aspects of union,
ku tamal gyi nampar rab tenpa
Who manifested perfectly in an ordinary form,
jé lho drak chenpor solwa deb
Great lord of Lhodrak, to you I pray.

ku nyima gyapé ziji dang
Your body has the majestic splendour of a hundred suns,
sung chö kyi drayang u ru ru
Your speech resounds with the melodious tones of Dharma,
tuk zab shyi dé tong ösal ché
And your mind is profound peace, bliss-emptiness, great luminosity—
pa sang sum gyi jinlab tsungda dral
O Father, the blessings of your three secrets are beyond compare.

dak mögü kyi solwa deb nü na
If I can supplicate you with devotion,
jé tuk kyi ngepar mi tong nyam
I trust that you, precious lord, will not fail me.
bu dak la jinlab kyi pa pok dé
Now is the time for patrimonial blessings
dü danta nyi du tsol ré ren
To be passed on to me, child that I am.

lo drepo tarpé lam la gyur
Adapt this stubborn mind of mine to the path of liberation;
nang dendzin drawa hrulpo shik
Tear apart the web of clinging to the reality of appearances;
chö zungdzin gyi tröpa ying su shyi
Let the constructs of dualistic perception cease within basic space;
sem rigpa kyemé ösal dé
Allow me to sustain at all times without any interruption
dü gyünché mepar taktu kyang
The clear light of mind’s own unborn awareness;
nga tsok druk gi nangwa rang sar drol
Cause all my sensory perceptions to be freed just as they are,
jé khyö dang gongpa nyampar shok
And make me your equal, my precious lord, in wisdom intent.

When Chökyi Lodrö, who has a well-developed purity of perception towards all teachings without
sectarian bias, felt an unbearable surge of devotion for the precious Lord of Lhodrak on
the evening of the 19th of the aśvinī (ninth) month of the Iron Dragon year, some words
of prayer came to mind, but he did not commit them to writing. He prayed again on the 20th
and wrote down these words. May they become a cause for the blessings of the great lotsāwa
to enter the heart. Maṅgalam. On the evening of the 19th referred to above, a visionary
encounter with the great lotsāwa, who was dressed in white and whose  hair and so on were
just as depicted in the modern traditions of portraiture, inspired a devotion without bounds.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rje mar pa lo tsA la gsol ba 'debs pa mos gus kyi rgyangs
glu/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 197–199

Version: 1.1-20210909
↑ The four transmissions (bka' babs bzhi) received by Tilopa, from which the Kagyü (bka' brgyud)
School takes its name are generally said to be: 1) Cāryapa's instructions on caṇḍālāi
or tummo (inner heat), 2) Nāgārjuna's instructions on illusory body and clear light or luminosity
(prabhāsvara), 3) Kambala's instructions on dreams, and 4) Sukhāsiddhī's instructions
on bardo and transference of consciousness ('pho ba).↑ Bhoṭa is the Sanskrit word for
Tibet.↑ The Tibetan name of Marpa’s wife Dakméma (bdag med ma) is a translation of the Sanskrit
Nairātmyā, the name of Hevajra's consort.