The Melody of Complete Accomplishment
A Prayer to Those Praised as Ornaments of the Practice Lineage
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

chomdendé dorjé sempa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the transcendent conqueror Vajrasattva!

nyingtob chenpö pakyul len mang drö
With great courage, you travelled many times to the Noble Land of India.
lodrö chenpö chö kün denyi zik
With great intelligence, you realised the true nature of all things.
drubpa chenpö chotrul chiryang tön
With great mastery, you displayed all manner of miracles.
lotsa chenpö shyab la solwa deb
To you, Great Lotsāwa, I pray!

nütu chenpö ku dra tsené ché
With great power, you annihilated your enemies.
kaché chenpö lama nyepar dzé
With great austerities, you pleased the Guru.
tsöndrü chenpö drubpé gyaltsen tsuk
With great diligence, you planted the victory banner of practice.
repa chenpö shyab la solwa deb
To you, Great Repa, I pray!

tekpa chenpö rik chok yongsu sé
You awakened the supreme disposition of the Great Vehicle.
chakgya chenpö tokpa ngön du gyur
You actualised realisation of the Great Seal.
trinlé chenpö kha dang nyam par dal
Your great activities spread as far and wide as the sky.
nyi gom chenpö shyab la solwa deb
To you, Great Meditator of Nyi, I pray!1

dampa nam la güpé soltab tü
Through the power of praying devotedly to you sublime beings,
drubgyü tendzin chok nam shyabten ching
May all those upholding the supreme practice lineage live long,
tenpa rinchen chok chur gyepa dang
May the precious teachings flourish in all ten directions,
jikten gelek chenpö khyabpar shok
And may virtuous excellence fill the entire world!

Thus, on the first ‘victory’ of the waxing phase of the Month of Miracles in the Wood Ox year
of the fourteenth calendrical cycle (1865), Karma Tenpai Nyima Shedrup Chökyi Senge, who
is utterly devoted to these great founders of the practice lineage, wrote this based on the
stable certainty experienced during the compound delusion [of a dream]. May it prove meaningful!
Sarva maṅgalam.

| Translated by Laura Dainty with the kind assistance of Tsangsar Tulku, 2021

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. “Bsgrub brgyud bstan pa’i btsas su bsngags pa'i gsol 'debs"
in gsung 'bum/_mkhyen brtse'i dbang po/. TBRC W21807. 24 vols. Gangtok: Gonpo Tseten, 1977–1980.
Vol. 1: 275–276

Version: 1.1-20211027
↑ Reading snyi sgam as snyi sgom. Nyi (snyi) is the name of Gampopa’s paternal family line,
hence his birth-name Nyiwa Kunga (snyi ba kun dga’).