Vajra Net
The Ancillary Preliminary and Concluding Practices for the Three Drops, the Guru Yogas for Venerable
Marpa, Mila, and Gampopa
by Jokyab Pema Trinlé Nyingpo

Homage to the Guru!

chok sum drubtob gyatso la
In the ocean of Three Jewels and mahāsiddhas
changchub bardu kyab su chi
I take refuge until awakening.
dro kün sangye tob jé chir
So that all beings may attain buddhahood,
changchub chok tu semkyé do
I arouse supreme bodhi-heart.

rangnang namdak gyalwé shying
In this buddha realm of pure self-perception,
ngotsar köpa sam mikhyab
Its wondrous design surpassing thought,
yeshe ö ngé shyalyé khang
Is a celestial palace made of the five wisdom lights
döyön chöpé trinpung trik
And a mass of offering-clouds of sensory delights.

tokmé pé nyi roden teng
Upon a lotus, sun, and corpse seat of non-conceptuality
rang lü dorjé naljorma
I stand in the form of Vajrayoginī,
chakmé pema ragé dang
Free of attachment – the colour of a lotus ruby,
tabshé yermé dri tö dzin
Means and insight indivisible – holding a knife and skull,
longchö gyen dzok dé drö bar
Replete with the sambhogakāya ornaments, ablaze with blissful warmth.

dün khar ö nga trikpé ü
In the space before me, amid an expanse of five-coloured light,
sengé langchen ta dang khyung
Are thrones held up by lions, elephants, horses,
namkha ding gi tri chen la
Garuḍas, and eagles, upon which rest
nyida pema rinpocher
Sun and moon discs and lotuses of jewels.

Insert here the relevant deity visualisation. Then continue:

ngönsum tabur salwa la
They are all vividly present before me,
nang la rangshyin madrubpé
Appearing yet without true existence.
né sum om ah hung gi tsen
Their three places are marked with the syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ,
ö trö rangshyin shyingkham né
Which radiate lights that invite from the natural pure realm
rang dra chendrang yermé gyur
Wisdom beings resembling the visualisation who become inseparable from them.

om, khyabdak ngöpo kün gyi rangshyin ni
Oṃ. The All-pervasive Sovereign, the nature of all things,
nemé dro ong dralwa namkha shyin
Is like the sky, non-abiding, beyond coming and going.
chuda shyindu gar mik der nangwa
Like a reflection of the moon in water, wherever there is intention there you appear.
palden lama né dir nangwar dzö
So Glorious Guru, make yourself manifest here before me!
om benza sa ma dza
oṃ vajra samājaḥ

rinchen sengtri darzab dang
Upon this supreme lion-throne of jewels, heavenly silks,
nyida pemé den chok la
Sun disc, moon disc, and lotus flower,
dakshyen drowé dön dzé chir
So that my own and all others’ goals may be fulfilled,
palden lama shyuk su sol
Glorious Guru, please take a seat!

lü kyi güpé kyang chaktsal
I pay homage with my body through full prostrations,
ngak gi depé tö chaktsal
Pay homage with my speech through inspired praise,
yi kyi tsé chik mö chaktsal
Pay homage with my mind through wholehearted devotion—
chaktsal palden lama la o
Glorious Guru, I pay homage to you!
dak sok semchen tamché kün
May the obscurations of my own three gates
go sum dribpa dakpar shok
And those of all other beings be purified!

ku sum ku ngé daknyi ché
Sovereign of the three kāyas and five kāyas—
lamé ku la chaktsal tö
To the Guru’s wisdom form I render homage and praise!

zabgyé tek gü chö kyi dzö
Treasury of the profound and vast Dharma of the nine yānas—
lamé sung la chaktsal tö
To the Guru’s wisdom speech I render homage and praise!

künkhyen yeshe nga dangden
Omniscience endowed with the five wisdoms—
lamé tuk la chaktsal tö
To the Guru’s wisdom heart I render homage and praise!

dral mindruk chu tsa shyi nga
Replete with the sixty-four virtues of separation and ripening—
lamé yön ten tsok la tö
To the Guru’s wisdom qualities I render homage and praise!

khanyam khorwa dong né truk
Dredging the depths of saṃsāra for all beings throughout space—
lamé trinlé tsok la tö
To the Guru’s wisdom deeds I render homage and praise!

tong kham chi yi mandel dang
The outer maṇḍala of the three-thousandfold realm,
pung kham nang gi mandel dang
The inner maṇḍala of the aggregates and elements,
rik kham sangwé mandel nam
And the secret maṇḍala of the innate disposition—
bul lo lama jé la bul
I offer these up to the Guru! I offer them all!
shyé né dak gyü jingyi lob
Please accept them, and bestow your blessings on me.
dro nam tsokchen dzokpar shok
May all beings complete the two great accumulations!

nang sem drepé chi chö dang
The outer offering of appearances and mind combined,
tsangmé dakpé nang chö dang
The inner offering of all notions of dirty and clean purified,
zungjuk nyimé sangchö nam
The secret offering of union, non-duality—
jetsün lama nam la bul
I present these offerings to the venerable gurus.
shyé né dakshyen jingyi lob
Please accept them, and bestow your blessings on myself and all beings.
tsok nyi dré khagangwar shok
May the scales of the two accumulations be filled!

tashi dzé tak gyalsi dün
The auspicious substances and signs, the seven royal possessions,
chudruk lhamö rol gar gyur
A revel of the sixteen goddesses in song and dance,
khordé köpa chir yar nang
The entire display of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa in all its guises—
palden lamé tsok la bul
All of this I offer to the gathering of glorious gurus!
shyé né nangsi jingyi lob
Please accept it, and bestow your blessings on everything.
nyamtok tsal kha gyepar shok
May the strength of experience and realisation expand!

tokmé dü né danté bar
Throughout time without beginning until now,
marik wang gi sakpa yi
Under the sway of ignorance we have engaged
mi gé chu dang tsammé nga
In the ten non-virtues, the five inexpiable acts,
rangshyin khana mato dang
We have performed naturally harmful acts,
dom sum gal nyam dé ral gyi
We have transgressed, damaged, violated, and broken the three vows
chepé khana mato nam
And so accumulated proscribed negativities—
jetsün lamé chen ngar shak
All this I confess before the venerable gurus!
drib tsok malü jang né su
May our entire mass of obscurations be cleansed
salam barché mepar shok
So we may traverse the stages and paths without obstacles!

sosö kyewö sakpa yi
In all the tainted virtue
zakché gé la jé yirang
Accrued by ordinary beings I rejoice.
pakpé tsok kyi sakpa yi
In all the untainted virtue
zakmé gé la jé yi rang
Accrued by the nobles ones I rejoice.
palden lama dampa yi
In the sublime life examples
namtar kün la jé yi rang
Of the glorious gurus I rejoice.
ma jé sakpé gewa dé
Through the virtue thus gathered though not performed,
tsok nyi bemé lhün gyi drub
May the two accumulations be effortlessly fulfilled
salam nyurdu dzokpar shok
And may the stages and paths be swiftly perfected!

duljé semchen tamché kyi
For all sentient beings in need of influence,
rang rangwang po tsampa yi
Please, in accord with their individual faculties,
zabgyé chö kyi khorlo dé
Turn the wheel of profound and vast Dharma
gyünché mepar kor du sol
Unceasingly, I beseech you!
mongpé drawa kün ché dé
May the web of delusion be cut through,
yeshe nangwa gyepar shok
So the light of wisdom may shine forth!

ngowo takpa chö kyi ku
Eternal essence, dharmakāya;
gyün gyi takpa longchö dzok
Eternal adornment, sambhogakāya;
chemé takpa trulpé ku
Eternal manifestation, nirmāṇakāya—
ku sum tsul tön lama nam
All you gurus who display the three kāyas,
nya ngen da tsul mi tönpar
I beseech you! Do not display parinirvāṇa
takten gyurmé yungdrung gi
But lasting, stable, and immutable as the swastika,
ngowor dü kün shyuk né su
Remain forever, throughout all of time,
duljar gyur kün sangye kyi
And so swiftly establish all beings, your disciples,
sa la nyurdu göpar shok
At the state of buddhahood!

dakshyen drowa malüpé
Whatever virtue I and all others
zakché zakmé zungjuk gi
Have gathered throughout past, present, and future,
dü sum gé tsok chi sakpa
Be it tainted, untainted, or through unity,
dro nam lama sangye kyi
I dedicate so all beings may attain
gopang tob chir ngowar ja
The state of the awakened gurus!

dak sok tserab gar kyé kyang
Wherever we are born in our future lives,
lama nam dang mindral shying
May we never be apart from the gurus.
dam zab dütsi long ché né
May we partake of the nectar of the profound instructions,
jé dang gongpa nyam né su
So our realisation becomes equal to the Sovereign Guru’s
trinlé tadak drubpar shok
And we can thus fulfil all their wisdom activities!

khyabdak lamé neshyi sabön lé
From the seed-syllables in the four places of the Sovereign Guru,
ö trö sé ché gyalwé jinlab dü
Light streams out and gathers the blessings of all buddhas and bodhisattvas.
lar yang rang tim wang dang ngödrub tob
This light then dissolves into me, and I attain the empowerments and siddhis,
dribdral ku dang yeshe ngön du gyur
Am freed of all obscurations, and actualise the kāyas and wisdoms.
om ah hung soha
oṃ āḥ hūṃ svāhā
Say that, and then recite the general mantra as well as the respective name-mantras.

jé marpa chökyi lodrö la solwa deb
To Lord Marpa, Chökyi Lodrö, I pray!
jé mi la shyepa dorjé la solwa deb
To Lord Mila, Shepa Dorjé, I pray!
jé dakpo da ö shyönnu la solwa deb
To Lord Gampopa, Da’ö Shönnu, I pray!
From among these, recite the relevant line of supplication. Also recite Invoking the Blessings
of the Kagyü Lineage—‘Dorjechang Thungma’1 and ‘Karmapa Khyenno’. Then recite:

lama rinpoche la solwa deb
To the precious guru, I pray:
dakdzin lo yi tongwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to abandon this attitude of self-clinging.
gömé gyü la kyewar jingyi lob
Inspire me to develop renunciation in my being.
chö min namtok gakpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to put an end to non-dharmic thoughts.
rangsem kyemé tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize how my own mind is unborn.
trulpa rang sar shyiwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to pacify delusion in its own place.
nangsi chökur charwar jingyi lob
Inspire me so that appearance and existence dawn as dharmakāya.

If you are making a gathering-offering, say:
rang shyön dzé langtso ta na duk
My body is in the prime of beauty and youth, captivating to behold.
lü tso num ché ji trakdang den
It is glowing and smooth, radiating splendor and majesty.
dün rangjung tögyé sum tengdu
Before me is a self-arisen hearth of three skulls
rang töpa kak gi parwa tsuk
Upon which I place my own skull, suddenly detached from my neck.
dé nang du rang lü tem gyi shyu
Inside it I arrange my own body, instantly melted down.
nyikma dak buwé tsul du lü
All its impurities flow away in the form of froth,
zer langpa khordé dangchü kün
While vapours rise from it, drawing in the essence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
ngak dru sumchar tar bab né tim
That pour down as the three syllables of mantra and dissolve into it.
dzé kar ngar sha nga dütsi nga
Thus it becomes the white and sweet substances, the five meats and five amṛtas,
lha chö drub ten kang gyepé tsok
Divine offerings, supports for accomplishment, fulfilment substances, a mass of delights,
né tong kham malü gangwar gyur
All so plentiful that they fill the entire three-thousandfold realm.
sem namshé chöpé lhamö tsok
An assembly of offering goddesses born from consciousness,
dok kar ser mar jang tingnak tra
White, yellow, red, green, dark blue, and multicoloured,
drang nyizer dul tar trikpa dé
As numerous as dust particles in sunbeams flock around
né chöyul kün la sosor chö
And present the offerings to each of the guests, the recipients.

pa kagyü drubtob gyatso dang
Kagyü forefathers, ocean of mahāsiddhas,
lha tsa sum rabjam gyatso la
Infinite deities of the thirty-two maṇḍalas,
tsok zakmé dütsi chötrin bul
I present this offering cloud, a mass of undefiled amṛta.
wang jinlab ngödrub malü tsol
Bestow all empowerments, blessings, and siddhis!
kyen barché lhakmé ying su shyi
Pacify all adversities and obstacles into basic space!
tsé chik la sangye drubpar dzö
Help us reach awakening in this very life!

kyab chok sum kündü lama dang
Gurus embodying all the Three Jewels, our objects of refuge,
lha yidam gyüdé shyi druk dang
Yidam deities of the four and six classes of tantra,
ma né sum khandro chökyong dang
Ḍākinīs of the three sacred locales, Dharma protectors,
yulnang si lha dré ché tra dang
Major and minor gods and demons of the apparent world,
né dro drukwar dö yi lü dang
Sentient beings of the six types, bardo beings with mental bodies,
ngöntsé rab mangpö lenchak nam
Those to whom I owe karmic debts from previous lives—
dé kün kyang lamé rolpar shar
They all dawn as the Guru’s display.
da khordé ronyam drön rik la
Now saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are of equal taste, so all you guests,
tuk gang la gang shyé dé la der
Partake of whatever you wish, whatever appeals to you,
dü chik la charwé tukdam kang
Such that your heart-wishes may be instantaneously fulfilled!

jé lamé tuk dang galwa sok
Whatever transgressions of the Lord Guru’s intent,
dik nyamchak nyetung dakpa dang
Whatever misdeeds, downfalls, and failings I’ve committed,
gyu tsok nyi dzok né drib nyi jang
Through this may the cause, the two accumulations, be perfected, and the two obscurations be
purified.
nyamtok pé tsal chen nyurdu dzok
May the great strength of experience and realisation be swiftly perfected.
lam nga drö sa chu tobpa la
May we traverse the five paths and attain the ten stages.
gek gol shor namyang minjung shying
May we never fall prey to obstructions, deviations, or sidetracks.
dré dön nyi lhündrub ku nyi tob
May we attain the fruition that fulfils the two goals, the naturally-present two kāyas!
tsé chik la ngön sangyé par shok
May we actualise full awakening within this very life!
Then partake of the gathering-offering, and afterwards say:

jé lamé trinlé trulpé tsok
The gathering of emanations who are the Lord Guru’s activity –
gön mahakala düsolma
Protectors Mahākāla, Düsolma,
pal rangjung ré ti chang shyön ma
Self-Arisen Reti Riding a Jackal,
shyingkyong bé lha men tsering ché
Realm-protector deities, the Tseringma Sisters,
ma khandro ging lang ponyé tsok
Mother ḍākinīs, gings, langkas, and emissaries—
né mu ren kyongwé lhak drön la
All you recipients of the residuals, you who guard the boundaries,
tsoklhak ma döyön chöpé trin
I present you with these offering clouds of sense delights, this residual gathering,
dzé zakmé dütsi gyatso ché
This array of substances – oceans of untainted amṛta,
shyen sha ri trak tso rüpé dram
Mountains of flesh, lakes of blood, great banks of bones.
di shyé la lé shyi trinlé drub
Enjoy it all and enact the four activities!
kyen chi nang barché minjung shying
Forestall all outer and inner obstacles and adversities!
sem nyamtok pelwé dongdrok dzö
Help us increase our inner experience and realisation!

dün gyi lamé lhatsok nam
The entire host of gurus and deities present before me
ö du shyu né rang la tim
Melts into light and dissolves into me.
tuk yi chik dré ngang la shyak
Their wisdom heart and my own mind merge, and I rest within this state
dija di jé teso dral
With nothing to do and no doer, free of all focus,
machö rangbab chakgya ché
Unmodified natural presence—the great seal.

dakshyen drowa malüpé
All the virtue gathered throughout the three times
zakché zakmé zungjuk gi
By myself and all other beings,
dü sum gé tsok chi sakpa
Tainted, untainted, or their unity,
dro nam lama sangye kyi
I dedicate so that all beings
gopang tob chir ngowar ja
May attain the state of the guru-buddhas!

dak sok tserab gar kyé kyang
Wherever we are born in our future lives,
lama nam dang mindral shying
May we never be apart from the gurus.
dam zab dütsi long ché né
May we partake of the nectar of the profound instructions,
jé dang gongpa nyam né su
So our realisation becomes equal to the Sovereign Guru’s
trinlé tadak drubpar shok
And we can thus fulfil all their wisdom activities!

drubgyü karma kam tsang gi
May the teachings of the Karma Kamtsang Practice Lineage
tenpé sa chen khyabpa dang
Spread throughout the entire world,
ten gor shyukpé gangzak nam
And may all those who enter into these teachings
drubpa tobpé tashi shok
Attain accomplishment. Thus may auspicious abound!

This was written by Pema Trinlé Nyingpo, also known as Karma Trinlé Gyatso, at Tashi Chöling
mountain retreat. May all beings be taken in by the Gurus!

| Translated by Laura Dainty with the kind assistance of Tsangsar Tulku, 2021.

Source: pad+ma 'phrin las snying po, karma bde chen. “mar mi dwags gsum gyi bla ma'i rnal 'byor
thig le skor gsum gyi sngon rjes kyi spyi chings rdo rje'i drwa ba/.” In gsung 'bum/_pad+ma
'phrin las snying po/. BDRC W1KG5787. 3 vols. khri'u tu'u/: gzu dgon rig gzhung nyams
gso khang /, [2010]. Vol. 1: 272–279

Version: 1.1-20211030
↑ https://www.lotsawahouse.org/tibetan-masters/bengar-jampal-zangpo/invoking-the-blessings